Final Project, Part 1: Proposal
Problem Statement: How can you maximize revenue as an app developer in 
any given category (games, health, books, finance, etc.)? 
Hypothesis/Assumptions: Free and ad-based models generate the most 
revenue for apps in most categories, while gaming app can generate the 
most revenue by charging a fixed price upfront. I assume that there is 
an optimal business model for each category of apps. 
Goals/ Success Metrics: I aim to define a revenue-maximizing model on 
two variables: number of active users and category. These two variables 
will be used to determine the best practice for maximizing revenue, 
whether it is charging for the app upfront or allowing free downloads 
then supporting the operations with advertising sales. For the apps 
driven by advertising sales, I would like to conduct a regression 
analysis to see how much ad revenue can be generated for a given number 
of users. For apps that are best run by upfront payment, I would like 
to create an elasticity equation to determine the optimal price. 
Risks/Limitations: A major risk in this project lies in the intangibles 
that cannot be measured, but those that would affect consumers’ 
willingness to spend on an app. We also don’t have the data of the 
failed apps based on the way data is collected. This create a strong 
selection bias. Lastly, the hypothesis that free and ad-based models 
would make the most money for most apps may run into the issue of 
multicollinearity, as well as reverse causality. The apps with a large 
user base are able to attract advertisers. Advertising is may not be 
the key driver of revenue generation; it may be the large user base 
that drove revenue growth. 
Relevant Dataset: I have access to SensorTower, which provides data on 
app sales and their downloads, ad-support status and number of active 
users in a time series by category of apps and by the store type of 
top-ranked apps on Android and Apple app stores. I am granted access 
through work.  

